                                          Cross-City Matters: A Multimodal Remote Sensing Benchmark
                                        Dataset for Cross-City Semantic Segmentation using High-Resolution
                                                           Domain Adaptation Networks

                                         Danfeng Honga , Bing Zhanga,b,∗, Hao Lic , Yuxuan Lia , Jing Yaoa , Chenyu Lid , Martin Wernerc ,
                                                            Jocelyn Chanussote,a , Alexander Zipff , Xiao Xiang Zhug
                                                a Aerospace Information Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100094, China;
                                          b College of Resources and Environment, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China;
                                                 c Big Geospatial Data Management, Technical University of Munich, Munich 85521, Germany;
arXiv:2309.16499v2 [cs.CV] 3 Oct 2023




                                                             d School of Mathematics, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, China;
                                                       e Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, GIPSA-Lab, Grenoble 38000, France;
                                                  f GIScience Chair, Institute of Geography, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg 69120, Germany;
                                                 g Data Science in Earth Observation, Technical University of Munich, Munich 80333, Germany.




                                        Abstract

                                        Artificial intelligence (AI) approaches nowadays have gained remarkable success in single-modality-
                                        dominated remote sensing (RS) applications, especially with an emphasis on individual urban en-
                                        vironments (e.g., single cities or regions). Yet these AI models tend to meet the performance
                                        bottleneck in the case studies across cities or regions, due to the lack of diverse RS information
                                        and cutting-edge solutions with high generalization ability. To this end, we build a new set of mul-
                                        timodal remote sensing benchmark datasets (including hyperspectral, multispectral, SAR) for the
                                        study purpose of the cross-city semantic segmentation task (called C2Seg dataset), which consists
                                        of two cross-city scenes, i.e., Berlin-Augsburg (in Germany) and Beijing-Wuhan (in China). Beyond
                                        the single city, we propose a high-resolution domain adaptation network, HighDAN for short, to
                                        promote the AI model’s generalization ability from the multi-city environments. HighDAN is ca-
                                        pable of retaining the spatially topological structure of the studied urban scene well in a parallel
                                        high-to-low resolution fusion fashion but also closing the gap derived from enormous differences of
                                        RS image representations between different cities by means of adversarial learning. In addition, the
                                        Dice loss is considered in HighDAN to alleviate the class imbalance issue caused by factors across

                                          ∗ Corresponding author

                                            Email addresses: hongdf@aircas.ac.cn (Danfeng Hong), zb@radi.ac.cn (Bing Zhang), hao_bgd.li@tum.de
                                        (Hao Li), liyuxuan231@mails.ucas.ac.cn (Yuxuan Li), yaojing@aircas.ac.cn (Jing Yao), lichenyu@seu.edu.cn
                                        (Chenyu Li), martin.werner@tum.de (Martin Werner), jocelyn.chanussot@grenoble-inp.fr (Jocelyn Chanussot),
                                        zipf@uni-heidelberg.de (Alexander Zipf), xiaoxiang.zhu@tum.de (Xiao Xiang Zhu)



                                        Preprint submitted to Elsevier                                                                  October 4, 2023
cities. Extensive experiments conducted on the C2Seg dataset show the superiority of our High-
DAN in terms of segmentation performance and generalization ability, compared to state-of-the-art
competitors. The C2Seg dataset and the semantic segmentation toolbox (involving the proposed
HighDAN) will be available publicly at https://github.com/danfenghong.
Keywords: Cross-city, Deep Learning, Dice Loss, Domain Adaptation, High-resolution Network,
Land Cover, Multimodal Benchmark Datasets, Remote Sensing, Segmentation.


1. Introduction

   Remote sensing (RS) is an essential means to acquire large-scale and high-quality Earth obser-
vation (EO) data in a concise time, which significantly advances the development of EO techniques.
However, the conventional expert system-centric mode has run into bottlenecks and cannot meet
the EO demand of the RS big data era well, particularly when facing complex urban scenes. Artifi-
cial Intelligence (AI) techniques provide one viable option that is capable of finding out potentially
valuable knowledge from the vast amounts of pluralistic EO data more intelligently, enabling the
understanding and monitoring of the contemporary urban environment.
   These advanced AI models, e.g., deep learning, have been successfully applied for various RS
and geoscience applications, which have been proven to be particularly applicable to the unitary
urban environment where the types, characteristics, and spatial distributions of surface elements
are significantly consistent and similar. Nevertheless, the ability to address multiple urban envi-
ronmental issues with highly spatio-temporal and regional change remains limited. The possibly
feasible solutions are two-fold. On the one hand, the joint exploitation of multimodal RS data has
been proven to be helpful to improve the processing ability of cross-city or regional cases, since the
RS data acquired from different platforms or sensors can provide richer and more diverse comple-
mentary information. On the other hand, designing more leading-edge AI models with a focus on
promoting the generalization ability across cities or regions is an inexorable trend to alleviate the
semantic gap between different urban environments, making it mutually transferable for knowledge.
   In recent years, enormous efforts have been made to couple or jointly analyze different RS
observation sources by the attempts to design advanced fusion and interpretation methods to achieve
a more diversified description for the studied urban scene. In particular, a growing body of studies
has confirmed the achievement of multimodal AI models in one single urban environment. It should



                                                  2
be noted, however, that multi-city-related cases are evolving at a relatively slow speed. This slow
progression can be satisfactorily explained by two very likely reasons as follows.

   • One refers to the lack of high-quality multimodal RS benchmark datasets for a better under-
     standing of cross-city environments.

   • Another is that currently developed methodologies prefer to focus on extreme performance
     pursuit in one single urban environment rather than improve the model generalization ability,
     particularly for diverse urban environments (e.g., different cities or regions).

   To boost technical breakthroughs and accelerate the development of EO applications across
cities or regions, creating a multimodal RS benchmark dataset for cross-city land cover segmen-
tation makes necessary. Just as important, the high generalization ability in terms of methodol-
ogy development is of paramount importance. This drives us to develop such a model with high
transferability between different cities or regions by means of domain adaption (DA) techniques.
Numerous experiments will be conducted on the cross-city land cover segmentation dataset to show
the superiority of DA-based approaches over those semantic segmentation algorithms that do not
consider knowledge transfer across domains. More specifically, our contributions in this paper can
be unfolded as follows.

   • A new set of multimodal RS benchmark datasets is built for the study purpose of the cross-
     city semantic segmentation task, named C2Seg for short. C2Seg consists of two subsets,
     i.e., Berlin-Augsburg (in Germany) dataset collected from EnMAP, Sentinel-2, and Sentinel-
     1, respectively, Beijing-Wuhan (in China) dataset collected from Gaofen-5, Gaofen-6, and
     Gaofen-3, respectively. The C2Seg dataset will be available freely and publicly, promot-
     ing the research progress on semantic segmentation across cities or regions substantially.
     To the best of our knowledge, C2Seg is the first benchmark dataset about the cross-city
     multimodal RS image segmentation task, which considers the three-modality study case,
     including hyperspectral, multispectral, and synthetic aperture radar (SAR) data acquired
     from the currently well-known satellite missions. The C2Seg datasets have been utilized
     for the WHISPERS2023 conference https://www.ieee-whispers.com/ in the capacity of
     Challenge 1: Cross-City Multimodal Semantic Segmentation. These datasets are accessible
     at https://www.ieee-whispers.com/cross-city-challenge/, with the training data al-



                                                  3
      ready made available. Shortly, we plan to make all datasets, including both training and
      testing data, accessible to the wider research community.

   • A high-resolution domain adaptation network (HighDAN) is devised to bridge the gap be-
      tween RS images from different urban environments utilizing adversarial learning, thereby
      making it possible to transfer the learned knowledge from one domain to another effectively
      and eliminate inter-class variations to a great extent. Further, HighDAN, which is built based
      on the high-resolution network (HR-Net), is capable of capturing multi-scaled image repre-
      sentations from parallel high-to-low-resolution subnetworks, yielding repetitive information
      exchange across different resolutions in a highly efficient manner.

   • To reduce the impact of the sample number imbalance between classes due to the multi-city
      studies, the Dice loss is considered and embedded in the proposed HighDAN.

   The remaining sections of the paper are organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the related work
for semantic segmentation in the land cover classification task systematically from the perspectives
of individual study scenes and cross-region (or cross-city) cases. Section 3 introduces the newly-built
datasets and correspondingly elaborates on the proposed methodology. Experiments are conducted
on the datasets with extensive discussion and analysis in Section 4. Finally, Section 5 makes the
conclusion of this paper with some remaining challenges and plausible future solutions.


2. Related Work

   Over the past decade, deep learning (DL) has been garnering increasing attention in many ap-
plication fields [1], owing to its powerful ability for data representation and learning. In particular,
the ever-perfecting DL techniques for RS enable accurate and automatic land cover mapping. Ac-
cording to different studied scenes, we divide these approaches into individual environments and
multi-region (or city) ones, where single-modality and multimodal RS data are further involved.

2.1. Semantic Segmentation on Individual Environments

   With the emergence and rapid development of DL, there have been recently numerous semantic
segmentation methods successfully developed for RS with a focus on a single studied scene [2].
Kampffmeyer et al. [3] developed deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for semantic seg-
mentation in terms of small objects in urban areas, where the uncertainty in CNNs is modeled by

                                                   4
Bayesian approximation in Gaussian process [4]. The CNNs-based architecture was also used in
[5] for semantic segmentation on multispectral RS images rather than high-resolution RGB images.
In this work, synthetic multispectral images are generated for initializing deep CNNs to alleviate
the effects of label scarcity. Yi et al. [6] proposed a deep residual U-Net (ResUNet) framework,
which consists of cascade down-sampling and up-sampling subnetworks, for urban building extrac-
tion using very high-resolution (VHR) RS images. Further, Diakogiannis et al. [7] designed an
enhanced ResUNet version, ResUNet-a, with atrous convolutions for semantic segmentation of RS
images. A multi-scale semantic segmentation network was proposed in [8] for fine-grained urban
functional zone classification using VHR RS images and object-based strategies. Adding to this
advancement, Wang et al. [9] introduced a recent breakthrough in the field, unveiling an efficient
U-shaped transformer network custom-tailored for the precise execution of semantic segmentation
tasks in VHR urban scene images. Concurrently, He and his collaborators [10] incorporated the
Swin transformer into the U-Net architecture, further enhancing the capabilities of semantic seg-
mentation in RS applications. In a recent development, as documented in [11], a novel approach
following the SegFormer [12] framework, enriched by the utilization of hypercolumns, has been
employed for seismic facies segmentation. Although these DL approaches have provided superior
segmentation accuracy over traditional model-driven models on single-modality RS images, they
inevitably meet the performance bottleneck in the complex scene understanding task (due to the
lack of diverse modality information).
   With the ever-growing availability of RS data sources from well-known spaceborne and airborne
missions, e.g., Gaofen in China, Sentinel in the EU, and Landsat in the USA, multimodal RS
techniques have been garnering increasing attention and made extraordinary progress in various
EO-related tasks. The data acquired by different platforms can provide diverse and complementary
information [13]. The joint exploitation of different RS data has been therefore proven to be effective
in further enhancing our understanding, possibilities, and capabilities in a single urban environment.
As the mainstream application, semantic segmentation of multimodal RS images using DL has been
widely studied in recent years. Audebert et al. [14] extracted the multi-scaled deep features from
multimodal EO data for semantic labeling. Further, the same authors extended their work in [14]
by implementing the multi-scale deep fully convolutional networks (FCNs) [15, 16] based on SegNet
[17] to process and understand multimodal RS data for land cover segmentation [18]. Similar to
[19], they also discussed the fusion strategies of different RS modalities, e.g., early, middle, and late


                                                   5
fusion. In [20], multi-sensor cloud and shadow segmentation are investigated using CNNs. Wurm
et al. [21] proposed to transfer FCNs trained from external datasets for improving the semantic
segmentation performance of cross-modal satellite images. Segal et al. [22] designed a CNNs-based
cloud detection algorithm based on the Deeplab architecture [23] for multimodal satellite images,
achieving an effective detection performance improvement. Ren et al. [24] proposed a dual-stream
high-resolution network (HR-Net) [25] for the deep fusion of GF-2 and GF-3 multimodal RS data
for land cover classification. In the work by Adriano et al. [26], the authors explored the mapping
and evaluation of building damage from a segmentation perspective, leveraging the rich information
provided by multimodal and multitemporal RS data, marking a significant advancement in the field
of damage assessment.


2.2. Semantic Segmentation across Regions or Cities

   Currently developed semantic segmentation networks of RS images in terms of the design of
network architecture, module details, and the use of loss functions have reached their performance
peak. It is a noticeable phenomenon, however, that these models are more often than not well-
designed for individual study scenes. This will lead to poor generalization ability for the model,
which can not well match the level of the segmentation performance, particularly in the cases of
cross-city or cross-region studies. For this reason, researchers have started gradually paying more
attention to the task of semantic segmentation across regions or cities.
   Domain adaptation (DA) has been proven to be helpful in reducing the semantic gap between
source and target domains [27]. The DA-related approaches have been recently designed to address
the challenge of cross-scene RS image semantic segmentation. For example, Chen et al. [28]
proposed a road scene adaptation segmenter by utilizing high-resolution RS images from Google
Street View in an unsupervised manner, which is well-designed to solve the problem of dataset
biases across different cities effectively. A novel adversarial learning method was presented in [29]
for DA in semantic segmentation, where the spatially structural similarity is employed to narrow
down the gap between data distribution differences of different domains. Tong et al. [30] first
pre-trained a deep CNN with a well-annotated Gaofen-2 land cover dataset, and transferred the
trained deep model for the unlabeled RS image classification in the target domain. By contrast,
Zhu et al. [31] directly learned a transfer network by attempting to align the data distribution
of subdomains with the utilization of a local maximum mean discrepancy for image classification.


                                                 6
Li et al. [32] proposed a few-shot transfer learning (FSTL) method to improve the generalization
capability of pre-trained deep CNN on mapping human settlement across countries. Li et al. [33]
reduced the impact of data shift effectively by designing weakly-supervised constraints, making it
more suitable for the task of cross-domain RS image semantic segmentation. Moreover, Wang et al.
[34] contributed to the field by facilitating domain adaptation (DA) in the context of cross-sensor
VHR urban land cover segmentation, with a focus on accommodating both airborne and spaceborne
RS images. Further, the same investigators [35] extended their work for semantic segmentation in
RS by considering local consistency and global diversity to enhance the DA capability.
   The joint use of multimodal RS data is capable of better mining the representation ability of
diverse RS modalities, further weakening the effects of data shift to some extent when the model
is trained on one RS data domain and transferred to another. Hong et al. [36] aimed at the semi-
supervised transfer learning challenge for cross-scene land cover semantic classification in RS and
accordingly proposed a cross-modal deep network, called X-ModelNet. The same authors in [37]
further extended their work with two plug-and-play adversarial modules to enhance the robustness
and transferability of cross-region RS image semantic segmentation. Similarly, Ji et al. [38] fully
aligned the source and target domains in the generative adversarial network (GAN) [39] guided
image space. The style translation technique is utilized to train an end-to-end deep FCN with a
combination of DA and semantic segmentation from the multi-source RS images to identify the
different types of land cover elements. Zhao et al. [40] reduced the disparity across scenes by
using fractional Fourier fusion and spatial-spectral DA techniques for cross-domain multi-source
RS data classification. These aforementioned methods can be unified into a general multimodal
deep learning framework for RS image land cover classification (i.e., MDL-RS) on both individual
and cross-region environments [41].
   There have recently been certain researches developed by attempts to investigate the feasibility
and effectiveness of semantic segmentation across regions or cities using multimodal RS images.
Yet the inadequate integration among high-performance deep semantic segmentation architectures,
DA networks, and the use of multimodal RS data inevitably leads to the performance bottleneck in
cross-domain land cover classification. Most importantly, the problems in the lack of multimodal
RS benchmark datasets become obstacles to the development of urban RS and further decelerate
the technical progress of scientific research in terms of cross-city semantic segmentation.
   The follow-up two sections will therefore focus on the solutions to the two above-mentioned


                                                  7
difficulties. Accordingly, one creates large-scale multimodal RS benchmark datasets for the study
of cross-city semantic segmentation and another brings forth new ideas in the update and upgrade
of network architecture and blending between multimodal RS data and DA techniques.


3. C2Seg: A Multimodal RS Dataset for Cross-City Semantic Segmentation

3.1. Overview

   To overcome the difficulty of multimodal RS data shortage and boost the technological inno-
vation of urban scene understanding across cities, we build a new collection of multimodal RS
benchmark datasets, including hyperspectral, multispectral, and SAR data, for research into cross-
city semantic segmentation (i.e., C2Seg). C2Seg datasets consist of two cross-city scenes as follows.

   • C2Seg-AB: Berlin-Augsburg cities in Germany, which are collected from EnMAP, Sentinel-2,
      and Sentinel-1 satellite missions on the date as close as possible, and accordingly pre-processed
      via ESA’s SNAP toolbox.

   • C2Seg-BW: Beijing-Wuhan cities in China, which are collected from Gaofen-5, Gaofen-6, and
      Gaofen-3 satellite missions on the date as close as possible, and pre-processed using the ENVI
      software.

   In contrast to certain well-known HR or VHR datasets, such as OpenEarthMap [42], it’s worth
noting that our C2Seg datasets encompass three distinct RS modalities, even though they maintain
a GSD of only 10 meters. Furthermore, we are committed to fostering research progress in the
domain of cross-city semantic segmentation by making the C2Seg datasets openly available for free
download. These datasets encompass 13 distinct land use and land cover semantic categories1 . To
the best of our knowledge, this represents a pioneering effort in creating a large-scale benchmark
dataset tailored for cross-city multimodal RS semantic segmentation, taking into account three
kinds of RS modalities. The C2Seg datasets will be unfolded in detail as follows.

   1 They   are Urban Fabric, Industrial/Commercial/Transport Units, Mine/Dump/Construction Sites,
Artificial/Non-Agricultural/Vegetated Areas, Surface Water, Street, Arable Land, Permanent Crops, Pastures,
Forests, Shrub and/or Herbaceous Vegetation Associations, Open Spaces with Little or Non-Vegetation, and Inland
Wetlands.




                                                      8
Figure 1: Visualizing C2Seg-AB datasets for semantic segmentation study scene across Berlin and Augsburg cities
in Germany using multimodal RS data.


3.2. C2Seg-AB

   In C2Seg-AB, the multimodal RS data and labeled semantic categories are prepared across
Berlin and Augsburg cities in Germany. C2Seg-AB consists of hyperspectral data from EnMAP,
multispectral data from Sentinel-2, and SAR data from Sentinel-1. Fig. 1 visualizes the C2Seg-AB
datasets in terms of scene location, image region, and different modalities with ground truth (GT)
of semantic segmentation.
   1) EnMAP Hyperspectral Data. Before launching the EnMAP satellite, the simulation
is the main and widely-used way that obtains the EnMAP-related product, which is synthe-
sized by using the full-chain automatic simulation tool, i.e., EeteS [43], on the high-resolution
HyMap or HySpex hyperspectral images. The airborne hyperspectral imaging sensors, i.e., HyMap



                                                      9
and HySpex, are used to acquire hyperspectral images over Berlin and Augsburg cities and their
neighboring areas. Using EeteS, the corresponding EnMAP images can be simulated by HyMap
and HySpex at a ground sample distance (GSD) of 30m, which are openly available form http:
//doi.org/10.5880/enmap.2016.002 and https://mediatum.ub.tum.de/1657312, respectively.
Further, the two hyperspectral images are upsampled to 10m GSD to keep the identically spatial
resolution of all multimodal RS images in the same studied scene. Therefore, the resulting images
consist of 2465 × 811 pixels (Berlin) and 886 × 1360 pixels (Augsburg), respectively, and they share
the same spectral bands (i.e., 242) in the wavelength range of 400nm to 2500nm. More details can
be found in [44] and [45].
   2) Sentinel-2 Multispectral Data. The Sentinel-2 mission is composed of two twin-orbit
satellites (i.e., Sentinel-2A/B) with a combined revisiting time of approximately five days at the
equator, the spatial, spectral, and temporal resolution, therefore, makes Sentinel-2 well-suited for
dynamic land cover mapping and monitoring. The Sentinel-2 multispectral sensor covers a total
of 13 spectral bands ranging from 10m to 60m with different spatial resolutions, and the captured
spectral reflectance ranges from visible to NIR and SWIR wavelengths. The best pixels in Sentinel-
2 multispectral composite are used in this work, which has been further processed by the SEPAL
cloud platform data processing system (sepal.io) of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAO). Furthermore, the Top of Atmosphere (TOA) reflectance was converted to
surface reflectance, and the best pixels were selected from the past three years as of April 2020
using a medoid compositing function, where the radiative transfer models are applied in [46] and
were later adapted to Sentinel-2 by FAO. In our case, 4 spectral bands are selected from Sentinel-2,
e.g., red, green, blue, and near-infrared (NIR), at a GSD of 10m by following a geographic reference
of WGS84/UTM Zone 32N.
   3) Sentinel-1 SAR Data. The SAR component is acquired by the Sentinel-1 mission, which is
a level-1 Ground Range Detected product obtained by the Interferometric Wide Swath mode. The
SAR data is characterized by dual-polarized information with VV and VH channels. The SNAP
toolbox is specially designed by the European Space Agency (ESA) for pre-processing Sentinel-
1 data to obtain an analysis-ready SAR image, which can be available from the link at https:
//step.esa.int/main/toolboxes/snap/. The workflow performed in the SNAP toolbox follows
several steps, i.e., precise orbit profile, radiometric calibration, deburst, speckle reduction, and
terrain correction. Employing the shuttle radar topography mission, the topographic data are


                                                10
Figure 2: Visualizing C2Seg-BW datasets for semantic segmentation study scene across Beijing and Wuhan cities in
China using multimodal RS data.


generated well. Different from the Sentinel-2 multispectral image, the Sentinel-1 SAR image is not
strictly sampled to the GSD of 10m. Accordingly, the SAR image is geo-coded to be 10m GSD via
the bilinear interpolation operator. Finally, the SAR images with two channels, i.e., intensities of
VV and VH, are aligned with the pixel-wise EnMAP and Sentinel-2 images.
   4) Ground Truth of Semantic Segmentation. Herein, we label the GT of semantic seg-
mentation by retrieving land use and land cover (LULC)-labeled data from OpenStreetMap (OSM)
LULC platform at https://osmlanduse.org/ and 12 main classes well-defined in OSMLULC are
considered in our case. Accordingly, we manually check the labels within the cities of Berlin and
Augsburg and also included the major street network from OSM and appended it to the existing
12 classes, which ensures the granularity and accuracy of the final labeled data. By extending
those classes defined in [47], we end up with 13 distinct semantic segmentation features, including
urban, industrial, mine, artificial vegetated, arable land, permanent crops, pastures, forests, shrubs,
open spaces, inland wetlands, water bodies, and street networks. The elaborately produced LULC
maps as GT data (i.e., for the purpose of the semantic segmentation task) in our studied areas are
visualized in color (see Fig. 1).


                                                      11
3.3. C2Seg-BW

   The C2Seg-BW dataset provides multimodal RS data and labeled semantic categories across
Beijing and Wuhan cities in China, as shown in Fig. 2. Similarly, hyperspectral, multispectral,
and SAR data are involved in the dataset, which is collected from Gaofen series satellites, such as
Gaofen-5, Gaofen-6, and Gaofen-3, respectively. The acquisition dates or satellite perigee passing
time of these modality data are late 2019 and early 2020, which ensures that the ground elements
remain unchanged as much as possible.
   1) Gaofen-5 Hyperspectral Data. The Gaofen-5 hyperspectral data is the level-1A product
collected by the Advanced Hyperspectral Imager (AHSI) [48] from the China Center for Resource
Satellite Data and Applications (CRESDA). The spatial resolution of the hyperspectral image is
around 30m with a narrow swath width of approximately 60km, and there are 330 spectral bands
ranging from 400nm to 2500nm. The spectral resolution in the visible and near-infrared (VNIR)
region (i.e., 400nm to 1000nm) is about 5nm, while that in the short-wave infrared (SWIR) region
(i.e., 1000nm to 2500nm) is about 10nm.
   The hyperspectral images are pre-processed using the ENVI 5.6 software, whose workflow mainly
includes radiometric calibration, Fast Line-of-sight Atmospheric Analysis of Spectral Hypercubes
(FLAASH) correction, orthorectification, and bands selection. The band selection operation is
utilized to massively remove the water vapor absorption, noisy, and bad bands to maintain the
image quality. The selected 116 bands are further processed by using the Savitzky-Golay filter.
The resulting hyperspectral images are upsampled from 30m to 10m GSD and they then consist
of 13474 × 8706 pixels in Beijing and 6225 × 8670 pixels in Wuhan, respectively, with a geographic
reference of WGS1984 Web Mercator (Auxiliary Sphere).
   2) Gaofen-6 Multispectral Data. The Gaofen-6 product is acquired by the specially-designed
camera to collect the panchromatic and multispectral images with spatial resolutions of 2m and
8m simultaneously. The multispectral data are used in this paper and pre-processed on the ENVI
platform via the standardized processing flow similar to hyperspectral data. To maintain the con-
sistency of the spatial resolution, the four spectral bands in the multispectral image are resampled
to 10m.
   3) Gaofen-3 SAR Data. The Gaofen-3 product is collected under the Wide Fine Stripmap
mode, yielding a spatial resolution of 10m with a swath width of 100km. The SAR data are
prepared by utilizing the functions of de-speckle and terrain correction in the ENVI SARscape


                                                12
Figure 3: Visualizing the comparison for connection modes of feature maps with different resolutions: (a) Series
Connection and (b) Parallel Connection.


Analytics toolbox. The Refined Lee filter [49] with a sliding window size of 5 × 5 pixels is selected
to remove the speckle noises, and the SAR data are corrected employing global digital elevation
model (DEM) data in GMTED2010 [50]. Similar to Sentinel-1, we adopt the dual-Pol SAR image
with HH and HV channels for two studied scenes, and the image size and resolution are the same
as those of Ganfen-6 multispectral data.
   4) Ground Truth of Semantic Segmentation. Similar to C2Seg-AB, we retrieve LULC-
labeled data and major street networks within the cities of Wuhan and Beijing (in China) from
OSMLULC and OSM, respectively. Herein, we again classify LUCL-labeled data by following the
class schema defined in [47], which is based on the widely-accepted Corine Land Cover (CLC)
schema [51]. However, the availability of OSM data in China is insufficient for semantic labeling.
For this reason, we manually map and complete the LULC features by taking multispectral and
hyperspectral images as the reference, making it consistent with the labeling schema used in C2Seg-
AB datasets. The labeled data of 13 distinct classes serve as a piece of ground-truth information
for the following quantitative analysis of cross-city semantic segmentation tasks throughout this
paper.


4. HighDAN: High-Resolution Domain Adaptation Network

4.1. A Brief Recall of HR-Net

   Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been proven to be effective in learning rich repre-
sentations from images. Many well-known CNNs-based deep network architectures have been put
forward successively, such as AlexNet [52], VGGNet [53], and GoogleNet [54]. However, there is a


                                                      13
Figure 4: The fusion strategy in HR-Net for feature maps between different resolutions, including the same resolution
fusion, upsampling fusion, and downsampling fusion.


potentially common problem in these backbones, i.e., the resolution of the generated feature maps is
relatively low when performing the feature extraction by adopting the convolution connection from
high resolution to low resolution in series. This inevitably leads to the loss of spatial information.
As a result, the traditional solution to this issue is designing an encoder-decoder architecture, i.e.,
reducing image resolution via the encoder and restoring to high-resolution representations via the
decoder. These networks, e.g., U-Net [55], SegNet [17], DeconvNet [56], Hourglass [57], belong to
the member of the encoder-decoder structure in essence. Nevertheless, this kind of deep network
architecture tends to generate blurred low-resolution feature maps due to multiple convolution oper-
ations. These feature maps with different resolutions are further integrated into series connections,
raising the risk of the loss of edge details and texture information.
    To overcome the difficulty mentioned above, HR-Net [25] is proposed to generate and maintain
high-resolution representations. The HR-Net’s increments lie in three-folds as follows.

    • To connect the high-to-low-resolution convolution streams in a parallel fashion instead of
      previous series connections, as shown in Fig. 3 to visualize their differences.

    • To keep high-resolution representations throughout the whole network architecture.

    • To exchange the information of feature maps across different resolutions, enabling the compact
      fusion between high- and low-resolutions to enhance the model’s performance. The fusion
      strategy mainly consists of 1) identity mapping for feature maps with the same resolutions;
      2) bilinear upsampling plus 1 × 1 convolution for feature maps from low to high-resolutions;
      3) 3 × 3 stride convolution for feature maps from high to low-resolutions. Fig. 4 illustrates
      the fusion mode in HR-Net.


                                                         14
Figure 5: An illustrative workflow of the proposed HighDAN for cross-city semantic segmentation, which mainly
consists of feature extraction head, high-resolution (HR) module, multi-resolution fusion, adversarial domain adap-
tation, and segmentation head (convolution decoder module).


4.2. Method Overview of HighDAN

    Owing to the advancement and superiority of the HR-Net architecture in terms of learning high-
resolution representations from images, we propose a novel multimodal HR-Net backbone (i.e.,
HighDAN) with unsupervised domain adaptation for the cross-city semantic segmentation task
using multimodal RS data. Overall, the HighDAN architecture consists of the multimodal encoder,
adversarial domain adaptation, and convolution decoder. The design of the domain adaptation
module aims to bridge the gap between the representations of source and target domains in an
adversarial learning fashion, thereby fully mining the invariant semantic features from multimodal
RS data and transferring them across domains. Embedding Dice loss [58] into networks, HighDAN
is capable of weakening the class imbalance effects that tend to be generated in the case of cross-city
image interpretation, e.g., semantic segmentation. An illustrative workflow for HighDAN is given
in Fig. 5.

4.3. Multimodal Encoder

    The multimodal encoder consists of a feature extraction head and a multimodal high-resolution
(HR) subnetwork. As the name suggests, the feature extraction head learns the preliminary rep-
resentations for different RS modalities by transformations. The head is comprised of the 3 × 3
convolution block and four bottleneck blocks. Fig. 6 visualizes the feature extraction head: (a)
convolution block and (b) bottleneck block. The former convolution block can be formulated as


                                              Zk = fWk ,Bk (Xk ),                                              (1)


                                                        15
Figure 6: Clarifying details in the multimodal encoder of HighDAN of (a) convolution block, (b) bottleneck block,
and (c) HR block, where (a) and (b) form the feature extraction head and (c) is the main body of multimodal HR
subnetwork.


where k is the index (e.g., 1, 2, ...) for different RS modalities, and X and Z denote the input
modality image and the feature representations via the convolution block, respectively. The function
f (·), i.e., the convolution block, is unfolded as 3 × 3 convolution operation, batch normalization
(BN), and ReLU activation function, which is with respect to the network variables of weights W
and biases B. Given that hyperspectral data typically possesses a significantly higher dimensionality
compared to multispectral and SAR data, it is common practice to employ dimensionality reduction
techniques (e.g., PCA) to preprocess the data before feeding it into networks. Additionally, to ensure
compatibility with the input dimensions of bottleneck blocks, several extra convolutional layers are
utilized for all input data, facilitating seamless integration within the network architecture. The
later bottleneck block is expressed by


                                             Qk = gWk ,Bk (Zk ),                                             (2)


where Q denotes the feature representations via the bottleneck block. The bottleneck block can
be represented as the function g(·) with respect to the to-be-learned network variables: W and B,


                                                       16
which can be unfolded as 1 × 1 convolution, BN, 3 × 3 convolution, BN, 1 × 1 convolution, and BN
in sequence. To provide a further explanation, the multimodal encoder in HighDAN initiates with a
three-stream network architecture that takes as input multimodal RS data, including hyperspectral,
multispectral, and SAR (see Fig. 5). This architecture is instrumental in elucidating the approach
used to effectively combine data from diverse RS modalities.
   The multimodal HR subnetwork well inherits attributes of HR-Net that can extract HR image
representations. Following the HR-Net, the input RS modality image is firstly downsampled by
convolution operations with a 2-stride as the main stem. By gradually adding high-to-low-resolution
streams, feature maps with different resolutions are then connected and fused in parallel to acquire
diversified resolution representations. The process can be written as


                                         Vk = hWk ,Bk (Qk ),                                      (3)


where Vk denotes the HR representations of the k-th modality via the multimodal HR subnetwork.
The function h(·) is defined as the multimodal HR subnetwork by copying the HR module in HR-
Net [25], which is illustrated in Fig. 6 (c) with HR block. That is, it consists of a multi-resolution
group convolution and a multi-scale fusion layer. The former refers to a regular convolution for each
resolution stream over different spatial resolutions separately, and the latter aims to perform an
interactive fusion of feature maps across scales. It should be noted that the HR module for different
RS modalities is shared in terms of network parameters to capture the high-quality multimodal
characteristics more steadily. The outputs from each resolution stream are re-scaled to the same
resolution as HR representations through bilinear upsampling, achieving the multi-resolution fusion
via feature stacking.

4.4. Adversarial Domain Adaptation
   According to the adversarial learning in GAN, the image-to-image translation techniques [59]
enable the pixel-level alignment and knowledge conversion between source and target domains. This
further provides possible and potential solutions to the cross-domain semantic segmentation task.
Prior to conducting DA, it is essential to concatenate all feature maps obtained from the various
multimodal streams, denoted as V = {Vk }m
                                        k=1 . This consolidation of feature maps is a crucial step

in the process. Inspired by [60], we adopt two types of DA modules based on the adversarial learning
strategy to align representations of source and target domains at both feature-level and category-

                                                 17
Figure 7: A diagram of adversarial domain adaptation used in HighDAN, which consists of feature-level adversarial
DA and category-level adversarial DA. The pixel-wise attention map is generated by the feature-level adversarial DA
and explored for reweighing and correcting the feature representations from the target domain, making it compatible
with features from the source domain. The category-level adversarial DA can further refine the segmentation results.


level. On the one hand, the feature-level DA module attempts to reduce biases of cross-domain
intermediate feature maps (i.e., V ) obtained from the multimodal HR encoder. Herein, pixel-wise
confidence scores that can reflect the degree of local alignment in different domains are generated
from the discriminator, which can be used to reweigh the intermediate features V to correct the
representation shift between different domains locally. This yields the aligned representations as
A. On the other hand, the category-level DA module aims to enhance global semantic alignment
from the label distribution perspective, which is used in the final prediction phase. The global
semantic alignment operation can be regarded as a kind of soft constraint on the category centers,
which drives the same category closer to each other in different domains. Visually, Fig. 7 gives the
corresponding diagram of adversarial DA used in HighDAN.


4.5. Convolution Decoder

    Given the aligned feature representations A via DA, a segmentation head in the form of the
convolution decoder is further applied on A to progressively reconstruct feature maps consistent
with the size of semantic labels, which can be formulated by


                                                U = TW ,B (A),                                                  (4)




                                                        18
 Algorithm 1: A flowchart of the proposed HighDAN
   Input: Different RS modality data (Xk ) including labeled (source domain, Xks ) and
           unlabeled (target domain, Xkt ) samples, and semantic segmentation labels (Y )
           corresponding to labeled samples.
   Output: Model, predicted segmentation results Ŷ
 1 Step 1 (Data preparation): Band-wise normalization for Xk , and feed the normalized
    data into networks with corresponding labels.
 2 Step 2 (Model Training):
 3 for t = 1 to T do
 4    Part 1: Multimodal Encoder
 5        1) Feature Extraction Head:
 6            Convolution block: Feature representations Zk obtained by Eq. (1);
 7            Bottleneck block: Feature representations Qk obtained by Eq. (2);
 8        2) Multimodal HR Head: HR representations Vk obtained by Eq. (3).
 9      Part 2: Adversarial Domain Adaptation
10        1) Feature Concatenation: V = {Vk }mk=1 ;
11        2) Feature Alignment: Aligned representations A via feature-level DA on V .
12      Part 3: Convolution Decoder
13        1) Predict semantic labels U by Eq. (4);
14        2) Compute the overall loss by Eq. (5);
15        3) Gradient backpropagation and update networks.
16   end
17   Step 3 (Model Inference):
18     1) Normalize multimodal testing data in a band-wise fashion;
19     2) Feed the normalized data into learned networks;
20     3) Obtain the predicted labels and output the final segmentation results.



where U denotes the predicted semantic label map, and the function T (·) represents the decoder
module that consists of convolution, BN, ReLU activation function, and 2x upsampling operation.


4.6. Model Training

     A flowchart illustrating the proposed HighDAN model is outlined in Algorithm 1, with step-
by-step procedures provided for clarity. Let X ∈ Rhw×N and Y ∈ Rl×N be the input images and
the ground truth (GT) of semantic segmentation labels with hw and l dimensions, respectively,
by N pixels. Then, xi and yi are denoted to be the corresponding i-th element (or pixel). With
these definitions, the network concerning the to-be-updated parameters of W and B is trained by
optimizing the following objective function. The overall loss L in objective function is


                                       L = Lseg + λLfadv + µLcadv ,                         (5)


                                                    19
where λ and µ are defined as the penalty parameters to balance different terms in the training
phase, and we set them to be both 0.5 empirically and experimentally. More specifically, the three
terms are detailed in the following.
   The first term in Eq. (5) is the segmentation loss, which consists of multi-class cross-entropy
loss and Dice loss, i.e.,
                                          Lseg = LM CE + LDice .                                 (6)

LM CE calculates the loss for each pixel equally, and LDice can alleviate the negative effects due to
the imbalanced training samples, e.g.,

                                                            PN
                                                        2   i=1 yi ŷi
                                    LDice = 1 − PN              PN         ,                     (7)
                                                       i=1 yi +    i=1 ŷi


where ŷi denotes the predicted semantic label in the i-th pixel.
   The second term in Eq. (5) is the feature-level adversarial loss. Unlike the vanilla GAN that
utilizes the classic cross-entropy loss to train the discriminator, the least square loss in [61] is
exploited in our DA task to avoid the gradient vanishing issue. Suppose the input modality data
X s is from the source domain and X t is from the target domain, the generator Ef and discriminator
Df can be alternatively optimized by minimizing


                       Lfadv (Df ) = EX s [(Df (V s ) − 0)2 ] + EX t [(Df (V t ) − 1)2 ],
                                                                                                 (8)
                       Lfadv (Ef ) = EX t [(Df (Ef (X t )) − 0)2 ],

where V s and V t are the feature maps (e.g., using Eq. (3)) extracted from the source domain and
target domain, respectively, via multimodal HR encoder module (collectively known as the generator
Ef in our case). To ensure the stability of feature maps of the target domain, we optimize V t by
                            t
using the updated rule of Vnew = V t + V t ⊙ α, where α denotes the attention map.
   The third term in Eq. (5) is the category-level adversarial loss. The analogy to the second
term, the adversary is performed at the category level to improve the global adaptation ability in
networks. We thus have the following adversarial loss:


                       Lcadv (Dc ) = EX s [(Dc (U s ) − 0)2 ] + EX t [(Dc (U t ) − 1)2 ],
                                                                                                 (9)
                       Lcadv (Pc ) = EX t [(Dc (Pc (X t )) − 0)2 ],



                                                      20
where U s and U t are the output’s decoder maps (e.g., using Eq. (4)) of the source domain and
target domain via the proposed HighDAN, that is Pc as well.


5. Experiments

5.1. Experimental Preparation

5.1.1. Implementation Details
   The proposed HighDAN is implemented on the PyTorch platform, and all deep models are
trained using CPU with i7-6850K, RAM with 128GB, and GPU with 11GB NVIDIA GTX1080Ti.
The Adam [62] is selected as the network optimizer with the iterations of 6000 epochs for C2Seg-AB
and 10000 epochs for C2Seg-BW, respectively. The learning rates of the segmentation network and
discriminator are both 0.0001 with a batch size of 16. By cropping the whole scene images with
the sliding window at certain intervals, we collect 273 (or 7140) and 140 (or 850) images with the
size of 128 × 128 (or 256 × 256) as a source domain for training and as a target domain for testing,
respectively, on C2Seg-AB (or C2Seg-BW) datasets.


5.1.2. Network Configuration
   To enable the reconstruction of the proposed semantic segmentation network, we particularize
the HighDAN architecture layer by layer. HighDAN successively starts with convolution blocks,
and four bottleneck blocks are connected. Behind it, three feature encoding modules are adopted,
each consisting of four basic HR blocks. The convolution decoder module is finally added with
the combination of four decoding blocks. Between the two modules, an adversarial block and a
concatenation-based fusion layer are embedded. For more details, the layer-wise network configu-
ration of HighDAN is listed in Table 1.


5.1.3. Evaluation Metrics
   We evaluate the cross-city semantic segmentation performance qualitatively and quantitatively
in terms of three metrics in common use: overall accuracy (OA), mean intersection over union
(mIoU), and mean F1 score (mF1). OA, also known as pixel accuracy (PA), collects each pixel
prediction:
                                                Pl
                                                   i=1 pii
                                      OA = Pl      Pl         ,                                (10)
                                               i=1    j=1 pij




                                                21
Table 1: Layer-wise network configuration of the proposed HighDAN. Conv, BN, HR, and Num are abbreviations of
convolution, batch normalization, high resolution, and number, respectively.

                                      Hyperspectral          Multispectral             SAR         Output Dimension
                                        3 × 3 Conv            3 × 3 Conv            3 × 3 Conv
                                            BN                    BN                    BN
                                           ReLU                  ReLU                  ReLU
          Convolution Block                                                                               64
                                        3 × 3 Conv                 –                     –
                                            BN                     –                     –
                                           ReLU                    –                     –
          Bottleneck Module         Bottleneck Block∗4    Bottleneck Block∗4 Bottleneck Block∗4           48
                                    Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4
         Feature Encoding 1                                                                             48/96
                                       Sum Fusion            Sum Fusion             Sum Fusion
                                    Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4
         Feature Encoding 2                                                                           48/96/192
                                       Sum Fusion            Sum Fusion             Sum Fusion
                                    Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4      Basic HR Block∗4
         Feature Encoding 3                                                                         48/96/192/384
                                       Sum Fusion            Sum Fusion             Sum Fusion
           Fusion Layer                                 Feature Concatenation                           720∗3
         Adversarial Module               Output the attention scores to reweigh feature maps           720∗3
                                                              3 × 3 Conv
                                                                  BN                                     256
                                                                 ReLU
                                                              3 × 3 Conv
                                                                  BN                                     128
                                                                 ReLU
                                                              3 × 3 Conv
                                                                  BN                                      64
     Convolution Decoder Module
                                                                 ReLU
                                                       Transposed Convolution
                                                                                                     Num of Class
                                                              1 × 1 Conv



where i, j, and l represent the real value, predicted value, and the total number of classes, respec-
tively, and the pij denotes the number of pixels that predict the i-th class as the j-th class. mIoU
computes the intersection and union of two sets, which is defined by

                                                  l
                                               1X              pii
                                  mIoU =                                       .                                      (11)
                                               l i=1 lj=1 pij + lj=1 pji − pii
                                                    P          P


mF1 score is the harmonic mean of precision (P ) and recall (R), which is given by

                                                         1 2×P ×R
                                               mF 1 =      ×      ,                                                   (12)
                                                         l   P +R

where
                                    l                                 l
                                    X           pii                   X          pii
                              P =         Pl                ,    R=         Pl               .                        (13)
                                    i=1     j=1 pij + pii             i=1    j=1 pji + pii




                                                            22
Table 2: Quantitative performance comparison of deep semantic segmentation networks in terms of OA, mIoU, mF1,
and F1 scores for each class as well as the model’s computational complexity (FLOPs) and parameters on C2Seg-AB
datasets. The symbol ‘–’ denotes no pixels correctly identified. The best result is marked in bold.

 Class Name                              DeepLab   SegNet   FastFCN   AdaptSeg   DSAN     DualHR   SegFormer   HighDAN
 Surface water                             0.31     18.53     24.24    22.96     12.20     38.49     37.45      52.06
 Street network                            9.54      3.00     13.00    13.61      5.80     20.98      0.79      21.35
 Urban fabric                             56.58     58.08     60.75    66.00      71.66    62.73     69.84      72.52
 Industrial, commercial, and transport    35.86     39.88     41.48    42.99      26.15    48.13     57.98      62.37
 Mine, dump, and construction sites         –        5.72      6.30     6.90      15.96    17.72     22.32       21.95
 Artificial vegetated areas               25.35      0.33     16.21    19.11      24.38    18.01     26.56      33.41
 Arable land                              53.28     58.34     48.01    48.47      55.85    61.14     53.91      65.92
 Permanent crops                            –          –         –        –         –        –          –        1.17
 Pastures                                  1.69     34.91      8.02     0.83     21.49      0.23     35.97      37.87
 Forests                                  62.85     34.20     51.47    53.43      65.72    53.52     70.87      74.35
 Shrub                                     0.59      1.60      0.39    11.23     17.64      2.34      5.06       14.51
 Open spaces with no vegetation             –          –         –        –         –        –          –          –
 Inland wetlands                            –          –         –        –         –        –          –          –
 OA (%)                                   42.46     43.40     43.51    44.53      47.68    48.05     53.40      57.66
 mIoU (%)                                 12.64     12.65     13.33    14.30      16.33    16.49     20.16      24.76
 mF1 (%)                                  18.93     19.59     20.76    21.96      24.37    24.87     29.29      35.19
 FLOPs (B) / GFLOPs                       56.42     30.53     38.58    38.34      53.67    37.46      5.82       40.11
 Params (M)                               72.68     29.48     56.70    44.86     107.44    15.33     28.97       16.55



5.1.4. Comparison with State-of-the-art Models
   We select current state-of-the-art (SOTA) semantic segmentation models for qualitative and
quantitative performance comparison using multimodal RS data in the cross-city case. They are
DeepLabv3 [23], SegNet [17], FastFCN [16], AdaptSeg [29], deep subdomain adaptation network
(DSAN) [31], Dual-stream HR-Net (DualHR) [24], SegFormer [12], and our proposed HighDAN.
The [23], [17], [16], [24] and [12] models fail to consider data shifts between different domains, while
the rest effectively embed the DA strategy into networks. It is worth noting that we prioritize
using the same network configurations (given in the original literature) for compared approaches.
Further, the relevant parameters can be slightly adjusted, making it applicable to the segmentation
experiments of multimodal RS data.


5.2. Quantitative Evaluation on C2Seg Datasets

   Tables 2 and 3 quantify the cross-city semantic segmentation performance by comparing current
SOTA deep models with our HighDAN in terms of pixel-wise OA, mIoU, mF1, and F1 scores for
each class as well as the model’s computational complexity (FLOPs) and parameters on C2Seg
datasets (C2Seg-AB and C2Seg-BW, respectively).
   By and large, the cross-city segmentation performance of deep networks without the consider-
ation of data shifts across domains (e.g., DeepLabv3, SegNet) is inferior to that of those models


                                                            23
Table 3: Quantitative performance comparison of deep semantic segmentation networks in terms of OA, mIoU, mF1,
and F1 scores for each class as well as the model’s computational complexity (FLOPs) and parameters on C2Seg-BW
datasets. The symbol ‘–’ denotes no pixels correctly identified. The best result is marked in bold.

 Class Name                              DeepLab   SegNet   FastFCN   AdaptSeg   DSAN     DualHR    SegFormer   HighDAN
 Surface water                             50.42    37.87     45.39     59.57       –       60.51     78.49       78.37
 Street network                            16.30     6.17      2.38    17.05        –       0.29       0.05        0.58
 Urban fabric                              33.75    34.86     38.44     25.06    42.08      0.76      30.90       40.04
 Industrial, commercial, and transport     2.48      1.87     27.63    32.77     25.68     24.19      20.38      43.67
 Mine, dump, and construction sites        1.70      1.36      0.86     1.94       1.22      0.26      2.52        1.67
 Artificial vegetated areas                8.97      2.23      8.83     8.99      9.55      4.19      10.79        9.28
 Arable land                                 –      16.23        –       9.11    25.37        –       18.01        0.43
 Permanent crops                             –       1.57        –       0.30       –         –        1.77        0.10
 Pastures                                    –         –         –         –         –        –          –          –
 Forests                                   1.68     13.31      4.14    32.98     46.85     32.70      38.72      47.22
 Shrub                                     0.72        –         –         –         –      0.22      10.48        0.26
 Open spaces with no vegetation              –         –         –         –         –      0.33       0.01         –
 Inland wetlands                             –         –         –         –         –      0.01       0.01         –
 OA (%)                                    19.51    15.94     21.22     29.26     18.55     31.97     33.56      39.58
 mIoU (%)                                  5.45      5.17      5.96     8.92      7.09      6.17      10.89      11.92
 mF1 (%)                                   8.92      8.88      9.82    14.44     11.60      9.53      16.32      17.69
 FLOPs (B) / GFLOPs                       213.01   122.13    154.32    144.58    214.67    149.86     23.30      160.45
 Params (M)                                72.68    29.48     56.70     44.86    107.44    15.33      28.97       16.55



that effectively embed the DA strategy into networks. SegNet shows comparable performance with
DeepLabv3 in terms of OA, mIoU, and mF1 on C2Seg-AB Datasets, while SegNet and DeepLabv3
hold similar segmentation accuracies on C2Seg-BW Datasets. For those DA-guided segmentation
networks, the adversarial DA methods (e.g., FastFCN, AdaptSeg) show competitive results com-
pared to DSAN based on the local maximum mean discrepancy. Although FastFCN and AdaptSeg
perform moderately lower than DSAN at an average decrease of 3%∼4% OAs, 2%∼3% mIoUs, and
2%∼4% mF1s, respectively, yet their F1 scores for each category are holistically comparable to
DSANs’ and the main differences lie in certain special categories, e.g., Pastures, Forests, Shrub, etc.
on the C2Seg-AB datasets. It is important to note that when confronted with more complex and
extensive datasets e.g., C2Seg-BW, the generalization capability of DSAN appears to be somewhat
constrained in comparison to FastFCN and AdaptSeg.
   Furthermore, the HR-Net backbone architecture can offer greater potential for extracting a
wealth of semantic information from multimodal RS data in comparison with the CNNs-based
backbone in the semantic segmentation task. For example, DualHR brings increments of 13% OA
based on DSAN on C2Seg-BW datasets, but the performance is basically identical to those on
C2Seg-AB datasets, compared to DSAN. However, it is essential to note that transformer-based
methods (i.e., SegFormer) consistently demonstrate competitive and stable performance on both



                                                            24
Figure 8: Visualization of semantic segmentation results obtained by successively using DeepLab, SegNet, FastFCN,
AdaptSeg, DSAN, DualHR, SegFormer, and our proposed HighDAN on C2Seg-AB (testing set: Berlin) datasets.



C2Seg datasets, achieving the second-highest results across all evaluation indices. Not unexpectedly,
the proposed HighDAN achieves the best segmentation performance by 4.26%, 4.60%, and 5.90%
gains in OA, mIoU, and mF1 (cf. SegFormer) on C2Seg-AB datasets, while there is also a nearly
similar trend, even higher performance (e.g., over 6% OA increase), on C2Seg-BW datasets. A
more noteworthy point to demonstrate the superiority of HighDAN lies in that HighDAN obtains
the highest F1 scores in many dominated categories, e.g., Surface water, Street network, Urban
fabric, Arable land, Forests, etc. on either C2Seg-AB or C2Seg-BW datasets. We have to admit,
however, that C2Seg is a very challenging semantic segmentation dataset. It is observed that some
categories are hardly identified, that is, the segmentation results for certain classes are 0% and few
are approximately close to 0%.


5.3. Visual Comparison on C2Seg Datasets

   Figs. 8 and 9 visualize the segmentation maps of eight different algorithms in terms of 13
semantic categories for the whole scenes of Berlin city and Wuhan city on C2Seg datasets. There
is a more significant visual difference between predicted segmentation results and GT (on both
Berlin and Wuhan scenes) in DeepLab and SegNet. On the one hand, Pastures are prone to be
wrongly classified as Arable land, while Inland Wetlands are heavily identified to be Forests in


                                                       25
Figure 9: Visualization of semantic segmentation results obtained by successively using DeepLab, SegNet, FastFCN,
AdaptSeg, DSAN, DualHR, SegFormer, and our proposed HighDAN on C2Seg-BW (testing set: Wuhan) datasets.



the Wuhan scene. On the other hand, Urban fabric and Industrial, commercial, and transport are
easily confused due to their similar spectral characteristics and functions. Compared to the first
two methods, FastFCN has visible advantages in discriminating the semantic category of Urban
Fabric and Artificial vegetated areas, while AdaptSeg is capable of identifying Arable Land more
accurately (despite the over-recognition of Shrub and Pastures being Arable Land ). We have to
admit, however, that the ability of AdaptSeg to classify urban-related semantic elements remains
limited. DSAN is a good recognizer for urban-related and vegetation semantic categories, which
can well distinguish Urban fabric and Industrial, commercial, and transport as well as Forests and
Arable land. In the family of HR-Net, DualHR is sensitive to capturing water bodies from a big
urban scene but fails to detect urban accurately, while the proposed HighDAN visually shows, as
expected, comparatively realistic segmentation maps closer to GT (cf. SegFormer). In particular,
water bodies, urban, and forests have nearly identical semantic segmentation profiles to those in
GT. There is, notwithstanding, considerable room for improvement in HighDAN, to further enhance
the identification and recognition ability in Arable Land, Street Network, and Inland Wetlands.
   In addition to the scene-wide segmentation visualization, we also provide detailed segmentation
results in sub-regions, as shown in Figs. 10 and 11 corresponding to Figs. 8 and 9, respectively. The



                                                       26
Figure 10: Visualizing semantic segmentation results of sub-regions corresponding to Fig. 8 for all compared models.


visual comparison of local semantic segmentation results highlights the advantages of the proposed
HighDAN in terms of preserving fine-grained details of objects in RS images. Further, HighDAN is
capable of effectively capturing small-scale features and details of the objects. This was particularly
evident in the cases of man-made objects with intricate shapes and textures, where HR-Net-based
models (i.e., DualHR, HighDAN) are apt to segment the objects without losing important details.


                                                        27
Figure 11: Visualizing semantic segmentation results of sub-regions corresponding to Fig. 9 for all compared models.


In comparison, the baseline methods, such as DeepLab and SegNet, yield segmentation results with
a severe loss of detailed information, which shows their limitations in capturing tiny and irregu-
lar objects or structures. While other compared methods have demonstrated some improvement
in identifying semantic categories with varying shapes, their ability in recognition accuracy and
boundary segmentation remains limited. Yet the visual analysis also reveals that our HighDAN


                                                        28
      Figure 12: Visualization of class activation maps (CAMs) using HighDAN on the C2Seg-AB datasets.


can effectively adapt to changes in imaging conditions and variability in object appearance across
domains or cities, resulting in improved segmentation accuracy and robustness. It should be noted,
however, that some categories are almost entirely misclassified in certain sub-images, such as Ar-
tificial vegetated areas, Open spaces with no vegetation, Inland wetlands, Shrub. To sum up, these
observations highlight the need for continued exploration and optimization of semantic segmentation
methods in the aspects of HR feature extraction and DA enhancement.
   To further assess the effectiveness of our proposed HighDAN model in extracting class-related
semantic information, we visualize class activation maps (CAMs) [63] on the C2Seg-AB datasets,
as shown in Fig. 12. These visualizations demonstrate that HighDAN excels in capturing high-level
semantic information with precise class activation, even for small classes, e.g., Street Network. This
capability underscores the model’s proficiency in semantic segmentation tasks.


5.4. Ablation Study

   The proposed HighDAN takes the multimodal HR-Net as the network backbone, which consists
of several key modules, such as multimodal HR encoder (Bottleneck + HR), DA (Feature-level


                                                    29
Table 4: Ablation analysis on C2Seg-AB datasets, where ‘Bottleneck’ and ‘HR’ represent the bottleneck feature
extraction module and the high-resolution module, while ‘Feature DA’ and ‘Category DA’ denote feature-level domain
adaptation module and category-level domain adaptation module, respectively. The best results are marked in bold.

  Model        Bottleneck    HR    Feature DA     Category DA     Dice Loss    OA (%)     mIoU (%)     mF1 (%)
  SegNet           ✗          ✗         ✗              ✗              ✗         43.40       12.65       19.59
  HR-Net           ✗         ✓          ✗              ✗              ✗         48.53       15.86       23.35
  HR-Net           ✓         ✓          ✗              ✗              ✗         49.85       18.95       27.80
  HR-Net           ✓         ✓          ✗              ✗              ✓         50.59       19.90       29.04
  HighDAN          ✓         ✓          ✗              ✓              ✓         53.74       20.62       29.84
  HighDAN          ✓         ✓         ✓               ✗              ✓         52.73       21.51       31.09
  HighDAN          ✓         ✓         ✓               ✓              ✗         56.44       24.03       34.32
  HighDAN          ✓         ✓         ✓               ✓              ✓         57.66      24.76        35.19



DA + Category-level), and Dice loss. To evaluate the importance of these modules for cross-city
semantic segmentation using multimodal RS data, we implement the ablation study on C2Seg-AB
datasets. Table 4 details the performance gain by combining different components in terms of OA,
mIoU, and mF1.
   SegNet follows the classic encoder-decoder backbone and serves as the baseline (without any
advanced components involved), yielding relatively poor segmentation performance. By integrat-
ing the bottleneck and the advanced HR feature extractor, HR-Net significantly improves at an
increment of 6.45% OA, 6.30% mIoU, and 8.21% mF1. With the Dice loss, HR-Net considers
the class imbalance issue and shows competitive results, but without DA, it inevitably meets the
performance bottleneck in the cross-city task. The adversarial DA strategy bridges the gap across
domains effectively from feature-level and category-level perspectives. HighDAN demonstrated a
noteworthy improvement in OA, with a substantial 6% enhancement over HR-Net, and exhibited
remarkable increases of approximately 5% in the pivotal semantic segmentation metrics, i.e., mIoU
and mF1. Notably, balancing samples of different categories via Dice loss also plays a prominent
role in HighDAN. As can be seen from Table 4, HighDAN with Dice loss can further improve the
cross-city semantic segmentation performance by at least 1.2% OA based on that without the loss.
We also present results that facilitate a comparison between scenarios involving HS data and those
without HS data in terms of OA, mIoU, and mF1: (57.66%, 35.19%, 24.76%) vs. (53.91%, 31.81%,
21.74%).
   In addition, we presented the results, which included training loss, OA, mIoU, and mF1, for
individual datasets using an 8:2 training and testing ratio, specifically focusing on C2Seg-AB.



                                                       30
Figure 13: Performance analysis of the proposed HighDAN in robustness in terms of training loss, OA, mIoU, and
mF1 score on the individual C2Seg-AB datasets.


This comprehensive evaluation process allowed us to assess the performance and robustness of
the proposed HighDAN model. Fig. 13 illustrates that the training loss of the model exhibits a
consistent decrease throughout the training process, indicating the model’s stability and robust
convergence during learning. As expected, there is a similar trend in segmentation performance
(i.e., OA, mIoU, mF1) across individual C2Seg-AB datasets.


6. Conclusion

   Fast monitoring and understanding of urban environments are inseparable from explosively de-
veloping RS techniques. The success of RS enables the accurate identification and detection of
materials of interest in complex urban scenes. As a primary and indispensable research topic, the
semantic segmentation of RS images has long dominated the overwhelming role in the land use land
cover classification of urban environments. However, these well-designed and dedicated segmenta-
tion methodologies are, for the most part, applicable only to one single city case. This severely
hinders the application deployments across cities or regions, since urban planning and manage-
ment, e.g., policy-making, land use, spatial layout, information transfer, etc., have to accommodate
multi-city studies.
   For the reason mentioned above, we in this paper focus on investigating cross-city semantic
segmentation and provide solutions accordingly. The solutions are two-fold. On the one hand, we
build a multimodal RS benchmark dataset (i.e., C2Seg) to solve the issue of insufficient discrim-
inative information by only using single modality RS data for cross-city semantic segmentation.
On the other hand, we propose a cutting-edge deep network architecture, HighDAN for short,
by embedding the adversarial learning-based DA’s idea into HR-Net with Dice Loss (to reduce the
effects of the class imbalance), making it largely possible to break the semantic segmentation perfor-


                                                     31
mance bottleneck in terms of accuracy and generalization ability from cross-city studies. Extensive
experiments conducted on the C2Seg datasets demonstrate that our HighDAN achieves the best
segmentation performance, which beats other SOTA competitors in almost all important indices.
Moreover, we will also release the C2Seg benchmark datasets and the corresponding source codes,
contributing to the interpretation research of urban environments across cities.
   In future work, we aim to extend the C2Seg datasets in a wide range of cities on a national
scale and even a global scale for the better study of cross-city semantic segmentation. In particular,
the development of hyperspectral RS, especially concerning its application on a large scale, is
indeed an issue that warrants urgent attention and exploration, due to certain inherent imaging
constraints associated with hyperspectral RS technology. Furthermore, more advanced AI models
should be developed and made accessible by further considering explicit and explainable knowledge
embedding, e.g., geometric priors, climate characteristics, and urban morphological properties, to
guide deep networks to learn more accurate segments and promote the model’s generalization ability
across cities.


Acknowledgements

   The authors would like to thank Ms. Zhu Han and Ms. Luyang Cai for pre-processing the Gaofen
data used in this paper. This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development
Program of China under Grant 2022YFB3903401, the National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant 42241109 and Grant 42271350, the MIAI@Grenoble Alpes (ANR-19-P3IA-0003), the
Klaus Tschira Stiftung (KTS) Heidelberg, and the AXA Research Fund.




                                                 32
References

[1] Q. Yuan, H. Shen, T. Li, Z. Li, S. Li, Y. Jiang, H. Xu, W. Tan, Q. Yang, J. Wang, et al., Deep
   learning in environmental remote sensing: Achievements and challenges, Remote Sensing of
   Environment 241 (2020) 111716.

[2] X. Yuan, J. Shi, L. Gu, A review of deep learning methods for semantic segmentation of remote
   sensing imagery, Expert Systems with Applications 169 (2021) 114417.

[3] M. Kampffmeyer, A.-B. Salberg, R. Jenssen, Semantic segmentation of small objects and
   modeling of uncertainty in urban remote sensing images using deep convolutional neural net-
   works, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
   Workshops, 2016, pp. 1–9.

[4] Y. Gal, Z. Ghahramani, Dropout as a bayesian approximation: Representing model uncertainty
   in deep learning, in: Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML),
   PMLR, 2016, pp. 1050–1059.

[5] R. Kemker, C. Salvaggio, C. Kanan, Algorithms for semantic segmentation of multispectral
   remote sensing imagery using deep learning, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote
   Sensing 145 (2018) 60–77.

[6] Y. Yi, Z. Zhang, W. Zhang, C. Zhang, W. Li, T. Zhao, Semantic segmentation of urban
   buildings from vhr remote sensing imagery using a deep convolutional neural network, Remote
   sensing 11 (2019) 1774.

[7] F. I. Diakogiannis, F. Waldner, P. Caccetta, C. Wu, Resunet-a: A deep learning framework
   for semantic segmentation of remotely sensed data, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and
   Remote Sensing 162 (2020) 94–114.

[8] S. Du, S. Du, B. Liu, X. Zhang, Mapping large-scale and fine-grained urban functional zones
   from vhr images using a multi-scale semantic segmentation network and object based approach,
   Remote Sensing of Environment 261 (2021) 112480.

[9] L. Wang, R. Li, C. Zhang, S. Fang, C. Duan, X. Meng, P. M. Atkinson, Unetformer: A unet-
   like transformer for efficient semantic segmentation of remote sensing urban scene imagery,
   ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 190 (2022) 196–214.


                                               33
[10] X. He, Y. Zhou, J. Zhao, D. Zhang, R. Yao, Y. Xue, Swin transformer embedding unet for
    remote sensing image semantic segmentation, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote
    Sensing 60 (2022) 1–15.

[11] Z. Wang, Q. Wang, Y. Yang, N. Liu, Y. Chen, J. Gao, Seismic facies segmentation via a
    segformer-based specific encoder–decoder–hypercolumns scheme, IEEE Transactions on Geo-
    science and Remote Sensing 61 (2023) 1–11.

[12] E. Xie, W. Wang, Z. Yu, A. Anandkumar, J. M. Alvarez, P. Luo, Segformer: Simple and
    efficient design for semantic segmentation with transformers, Advances in Neural Information
    Processing Systems 34 (2021) 12077–12090.

[13] M. Dalla Mura, S. Prasad, F. Pacifici, P. Gamba, J. Chanussot, J. A. Benediktsson, Challenges
    and opportunities of multimodality and data fusion in remote sensing, Proceedings of the IEEE
    103 (2015) 1585–1601.

[14] N. Audebert, B. L. Saux, S. Lefèvre, Semantic segmentation of earth observation data us-
    ing multimodal and multi-scale deep networks, in: Proceedings of the Asian Conference on
    Computer Vision (ACCV), Springer, 2016, pp. 180–196.

[15] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, T. Darrell, Fully convolutional networks for semantic segmentation, in:
    Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),
    2015, pp. 3431–3440.

[16] H. Wu, J. Zhang, K. Huang, K. Liang, Y. Yu, Fastfcn: Rethinking dilated convolution in the
    backbone for semantic segmentation, arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.11816 (2019).

[17] V. Badrinarayanan, A. Kendall, R. Cipolla, Segnet: A deep convolutional encoder-decoder
    architecture for image segmentation, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine
    Intelligence 39 (2017) 2481–2495.

[18] N. Audebert, B. Le Saux, S. Lefèvre, Beyond rgb: Very high resolution urban remote sensing
    with multimodal deep networks, ISPRS journal of photogrammetry and remote sensing 140
    (2018) 20–32.




                                                34
[19] D. Hong, L. Gao, R. Hang, B. Zhang, J. Chanussot, Deep encoder-decoder networks for
    classification of hyperspectral and lidar data, IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters
    (2020).

[20] M. Wieland, Y. Li, S. Martinis, Multi-sensor cloud and cloud shadow segmentation with a
    convolutional neural network, Remote Sensing of Environment 230 (2019) 111203.

[21] M. Wurm, T. Stark, X. X. Zhu, M. Weigand, H. Taubenböck, Semantic segmentation of slums
    in satellite images using transfer learning on fully convolutional neural networks, ISPRS journal
    of photogrammetry and remote sensing 150 (2019) 59–69.

[22] M. Segal-Rozenhaimer, A. Li, K. Das, V. Chirayath, Cloud detection algorithm for multi-modal
    satellite imagery using convolutional neural networks (cnn), Remote Sensing of Environment
    237 (2020) 111446.

[23] L.-C. Chen, G. Papandreou, I. Kokkinos, K. Murphy, A. L. Yuille, Deeplab: Semantic image
    segmentation with deep convolutional nets, atrous convolution, and fully connected crfs, IEEE
    Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 40 (2017) 834–848.

[24] B. Ren, S. Ma, B. Hou, D. Hong, J. Chanussot, J. Wang, L. Jiao, A dual-stream high resolution
    network: Deep fusion of gf-2 and gf-3 data for land cover classification, International Journal
    of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 112 (2022) 102896.

[25] K. Sun, B. Xiao, D. Liu, J. Wang, Deep high-resolution representation learning for human
    pose estimation, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition (CVPR), 2019, pp. 5693–5703.

[26] B. Adriano, N. Yokoya, J. Xia, H. Miura, W. Liu, M. Matsuoka, S. Koshimura, Learning from
    multimodal and multitemporal earth observation data for building damage mapping, ISPRS
    Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 175 (2021) 132–143.

[27] Y. Ganin, V. Lempitsky, Unsupervised domain adaptation by backpropagation, in: Pro-
    ceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML), PMLR, 2015, pp.
    1180–1189.




                                                35
[28] Y.-H. Chen, W.-Y. Chen, Y.-T. Chen, B.-C. Tsai, Y.-C. Frank Wang, M. Sun, No more
    discrimination: Cross city adaptation of road scene segmenters, in: Proceedings of the IEEE
    International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2017, pp. 1992–2001.

[29] Y.-H. Tsai, W.-C. Hung, S. Schulter, K. Sohn, M.-H. Yang, M. Chandraker, Learning to adapt
    structured output space for semantic segmentation, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
    on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2018, pp. 7472–7481.

[30] X.-Y. Tong, G.-S. Xia, Q. Lu, H. Shen, S. Li, S. You, L. Zhang, Land-cover classification
    with high-resolution remote sensing images using transferable deep models, Remote Sensing
    of Environment 237 (2020) 111322.

[31] Y. Zhu, F. Zhuang, J. Wang, G. Ke, J. Chen, J. Bian, H. Xiong, Q. He, Deep subdomain adap-
    tation network for image classification, IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning
    Systems 32 (2021) 1713–1722.

[32] H. Li, B. Herfort, S. Lautenbach, J. Chen, A. Zipf, Improving openstreetmap missing building
    detection using few-shot transfer learning in sub-saharan africa, Transactions in GIS 26 (2022)
    3125–3146.

[33] Y. Li, T. Shi, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, Z. Wang, H. Li, Learning deep semantic segmentation
    network under multiple weakly-supervised constraints for cross-domain remote sensing image
    semantic segmentation, ISPRS Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing 175 (2021)
    20–33.

[34] J. Wang, A. Ma, Y. Zhong, Z. Zheng, L. Zhang, Cross-sensor domain adaptation for high
    spatial resolution urban land-cover mapping: From airborne to spaceborne imagery, Remote
    Sensing of Environment 277 (2022) 113058.

[35] A. Ma, C. Zheng, J. Wang, Y. Zhong, Domain adaptive land-cover classification via local
    consistency and global diversity, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing (2023).

[36] D. Hong, N. Yokoya, G.-S. Xia, J. Chanussot, X. X. Zhu, X-modalnet: A semi-supervised deep
    cross-modal network for classification of remote sensing data, ISPRS Journal of Photogram-
    metry and Remote Sensing 167 (2020) 12–23.



                                               36
[37] D. Hong, J. Yao, D. Meng, Z. Xu, J. Chanussot, Multimodal gans: Toward crossmodal
    hyperspectral–multispectral image segmentation, IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Re-
    mote Sensing 59 (2021) 5103–5113.

[38] S. Ji, D. Wang, M. Luo, Generative adversarial network-based full-space domain adaptation
    for land cover classification from multiple-source remote sensing images, IEEE Transactions
    on Geoscience and Remote Sensing 59 (2021) 3816–3828.

[39] I. Goodfellow, J. Pouget-Abadie, M. Mirza, B. Xu, D. Warde-Farley, S. Ozair, A. Courville,
    Y. Bengio, Generative adversarial networks, Communications of the ACM 63 (2020) 139–144.

[40] X. Zhao, M. Zhang, R. Tao, W. Li, W. Liao, W. Philips, Cross-domain classification of
    multisource remote sensing data using fractional fusion and spatial-spectral domain adaptation,
    IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing 15 (2022)
    5721–5733.

[41] D. Hong, L. Gao, N. Yokoya, J. Yao, J. Chanussot, Q. Du, B. Zhang, More diverse means better:
    Multimodal deep learning meets remote-sensing imagery classification, IEEE Transactions on
    Geoscience and Remote Sensing 59 (2021) 4340–4354.

[42] J. Xia, N. Yokoya, B. Adriano, C. Broni-Bediako, Openearthmap: A benchmark dataset
    for global high-resolution land cover mapping, in: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter
    Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, 2023, pp. 6254–6264.

[43] K. Segl, L. Guanter, C. Rogass, T. Kuester, S. Roessner, H. Kaufmann, B. Sang, V. Mogulsky,
    S. Hofer, EeteS-—The EnMAP end-to-end simulation tool, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics
    in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing 5 (2012) 522–530.

[44] A. Okujeni, S. van der Linden, P. Hostert, Berlin-urban-gradient dataset 2009-an enmap
    preparatory flight campaign (2016).

[45] J. Hu, R. Liu, D. Hong, A. Camero, J. Yao, M. Schneider, F. Kurz, K. Segl, X. X. Zhu, Mdas:
    A new multimodal benchmark dataset for remote sensing, Earth System Science Data 15
    (2023) 113—-31.




                                               37
[46] M. C. Hansen, D. P. Roy, E. Lindquist, B. Adusei, C. O. Justice, A. Altstatt, A method for
    integrating modis and landsat data for systematic monitoring of forest cover and change in the
    congo basin, Remote Sensing of Environment 112 (2008) 2495–2513.

[47] M. Schultz, J. Voss, M. Auer, S. Carter, A. Zipf, Open land cover from openstreetmap and
    remote sensing, International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 63
    (2017) 206–213.

[48] Y.-N. Liu, D.-X. Sun, X.-N. Hu, X. Ye, Y.-D. Li, S.-F. Liu, K.-Q. Cao, M.-Y. Chai, J. Zhang,
    Y. Zhang, et al., The advanced hyperspectral imager: aboard china’s gaofen-5 satellite, IEEE
    Geoscience and Remote Sensing Magazine 7 (2019) 23–32.

[49] A. S. Yommy, R. Liu, S. Wu, Sar image despeckling using refined lee filter, in: 2015 7th
    International Conference on Intelligent Human-Machine Systems and Cybernetics, volume 2,
    IEEE, 2015, pp. 260–265.

[50] J. J. Danielson, D. B. Gesch, Global multi-resolution terrain elevation data 2010
    (GMTED2010), US Department of the Interior, US Geological Survey Washington, DC, USA,
    2011.

[51] J. Feranec, T. Soukup, G. Hazeu, G. Jaffrain, European landscape dynamics: CORINE land
    cover data, CRC Press, 2016.

[52] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, G. E. Hinton, Imagenet classification with deep convolutional
    neural networks, Communications of the ACM 60 (2017) 84–90.

[53] K. Simonyan, A. Zisserman, Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition,
    in: Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2015.

[54] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov, D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke,
    A. Rabinovich, Going deeper with convolutions, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
    Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2015, pp. 1–9.

[55] O. Ronneberger, P. Fischer, T. Brox, U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image
    segmentation, in: International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-
    assisted Intervention (MICCAI), Springer, 2015, pp. 234–241.


                                                38
[56] H. Noh, S. Hong, B. Han, Learning deconvolution network for semantic segmentation, in:
    Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), 2015, pp.
    1520–1528.

[57] A. Newell, K. Yang, J. Deng, Stacked hourglass networks for human pose estimation, in:
    Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer, 2016, pp. 483–499.

[58] X. Li, X. Sun, Y. Meng, J. Liang, F. Wu, J. Li, Dice loss for data-imbalanced nlp tasks,
    in: Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
    (ACL), 2020, pp. 465–476.

[59] P. Isola, J.-Y. Zhu, T. Zhou, A. A. Efros, Image-to-image translation with conditional adver-
    sarial networks, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition (CVPR), 2017, pp. 1125–1134.

[60] F. Yu, M. Zhang, H. Dong, S. Hu, B. Dong, L. Zhang, Dast: Unsupervised domain adaptation
    in semantic segmentation based on discriminator attention and self-training, in: Proceedings
    of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 35, 2021, pp. 10754–10762.

[61] X. Mao, Q. Li, H. Xie, R. Y. Lau, Z. Wang, S. Paul Smolley, Least squares generative
    adversarial networks, in: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer
    Vision (ICCV), 2017, pp. 2794–2802.

[62] D. Kingma, J. Ba,        Adam:   A method for stochastic optimization,       arXiv preprint
    arXiv:1412.6980 (2014).

[63] B. Zhou, A. Khosla, A. Lapedriza, A. Oliva, A. Torralba, Learning deep features for discrimi-
    native localization, in: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
    Recognition, 2016, pp. 2921–2929.




                                               39
